README.md, before:

# terraform-gcp-cloudbuild-gitops
Sample Code for Automating Deployments of Google Cloud Run Functions with Terraform and Cloud Build

## Overview

This repository uses Terraform to manage the CI/CD pipeline for Google Cloud Functions. The code within the `src` folder is automatically built and deployed to Google Cloud Functions whenever there is a push to the repository. This setup ensures that the latest code is always running in your cloud environment without manual intervention.

## Workflow

1. **Code Management:**  
   - Place your Cloud Function code in the `src` folder. Each function should be contained within its respective folder inside `src`.
   - Inside the folder, name the code file as `main.py`, and add `requirements.txt`.

2. **Automatic Build and Deployment:**  
   - Any push to the `prod` or `dev` branch triggers the CI/CD pipeline.
   - The pipeline will automatically rebuild and deploy the Google Cloud Functions with the latest code from the `src` folder.
   - Terraform is used to manage the infrastructure, ensuring that the cloud resources are correctly provisioned and configured before deployment.

3. **Terraform Configuration:**
   - The core infrastructure setup and configurations are managed via Terraform scripts located in the `cloudbuild.yaml` and `environments/[branchName]/main.tf` file. 
   - Note that no `_` is allowed in google cloud function names, use `-` instead.
   - Before initiating a build, ensure that all necessary function build details, such as memory allocation, timeout settings, and environment variables, are defined in the `main.tf` file.
   - It is crucial to correctly configure the Terraform scripts to match the requirements of your Cloud Functions, including resource naming, triggers, and permissions.

### Continuous Integration/Continuous Deployment (CI/CD)

- Every time you push changes to the repository, the CI/CD pipeline is triggered.
- The pipeline rebuilds and redeploys the Cloud Functions with the latest code from the `src` directory.
- Monitor the build and deployment process through the Google Cloud Console or your CI/CD tool to ensure successful deployment.

## Set Up

A few steps are needed to set up the connection between GCP, Terraform, and GitHub.

1. [Setting up GCP Project and GitHub repository](https://cloud.google.com/docs/terraform/resource-management/managing-infrastructure-as-code#prerequisites)
2. [Configuring Terraform to store state in a Cloud Storage bucket](https://cloud.google.com/docs/terraform/resource-management/managing-infrastructure-as-code#configuring_terraform_to_store_state_in_a_cloud_storage_bucket)
3. [Granting permissions to your Cloud Build service account](https://cloud.google.com/docs/terraform/resource-management/managing-infrastructure-as-code#granting_permissions_to_your_cloud_build_service_account)
4. [Directly connecting Cloud Build to your GitHub repository](https://cloud.google.com/docs/terraform/resource-management/managing-infrastructure-as-code#directly_connecting_cloud_build_to_your_github_repository)

## Common Errors

- 2nd Gen Google Cloud Run Functions can output misleading error messages. So after successful deployment in Cloud Build, if there is an error in the function console, try debugging by deploying the code locally. See: [StackOverflow Discussion](https://stackoverflow.com/a/75632728)

- If deploying locally shows no error, try changing the function name in `[branch_name]/main.tf`. This forces Cloud Build to reset deployment settings.

## See More At:

1. [Google: Managing infrastructure as code with Terraform, Cloud Build, and GitOps](https://cloud.google.com/docs/terraform/resource-management/managing-infrastructure-as-code) — Note the sample code repo is broken.
2. [Google: Cloud Functions, Terraform Tutorial](https://cloud.google.com/functions/docs/tutorials/terraform)

Commit message:

feat: update with code structure

README.md, after:

# terraform-gcp-cloudbuild-gitops
Sample Code for Automating Deployments of Google Cloud Run Functions with Terraform and Cloud Build

## Overview

This repository uses Terraform to manage the CI/CD pipeline for Google Cloud Functions. The code within the `src` folder is automatically built and deployed to Google Cloud Functions whenever there is a push to the repository. This setup ensures that the latest code is always running in your cloud environment without manual intervention.

The code in this repository is structured as follows:

The `environments/` folder contains subfolders that represent environments, such as dev and prod, which provide logical separation between workloads at different stages of maturity, development and production, respectively. Although it's a good practice to have these environments as similar as possible, each subfolder has its own Terraform configuration to ensure they can have unique settings as necessary.

The `modules/` folder contains inline Terraform modules. These modules represent logical groupings of related resources and are used to share code across different environments.

The `cloudbuild.yaml` file is a build configuration file that contains instructions for Cloud Build, such as how to perform tasks based on a set of steps. This file specifies a conditional execution depending on the branch Cloud Build is fetching the code from, for example:

For `dev` and `prod` branches, the following steps are executed:

`terraform init`
`terraform plan`
`terraform apply`
For any other branch, the following steps are executed:

`terraform init` for all `environments` subfolders
`terraform plan` for all `environments` subfolders
To ensure that the changes being proposed are appropriate for every environment, `terraform init` and `terraform plan` are run for all `environments` subfolders. Before merging the pull request, you can review the plans to make sure that access isn't being granted to an unauthorized entity, for example.



## Workflow

1. **Code Management:**  
   - Place your Cloud Function code in the `src` folder. Each function should be contained within its respective folder inside `src`.
   - Inside the folder, name the code file as `main.py`, and add `requirements.txt`.

2. **Automatic Build and Deployment:**  
   - Any push to the `prod` or `dev` branch triggers the CI/CD pipeline.
   - The pipeline will automatically rebuild and deploy the Google Cloud Functions with the latest code from the `src` folder.
   - Terraform is used to manage the infrastructure, ensuring that the cloud resources are correctly provisioned and configured before deployment.

3. **Terraform Configuration:**
   - The core infrastructure setup and configurations are managed via Terraform scripts located in the `cloudbuild.yaml` and `environments/[branchName]/main.tf` file. 
   - Note that no `_` is allowed in google cloud function names, use `-` instead.
   - Before initiating a build, ensure that all necessary function build details, such as memory allocation, timeout settings, and environment variables, are defined in the `main.tf` file.
   - It is crucial to correctly configure the Terraform scripts to match the requirements of your Cloud Functions, including resource naming, triggers, and permissions.

### Continuous Integration/Continuous Deployment (CI/CD)

- Every time you push changes to the repository, the CI/CD pipeline is triggered.
- The pipeline rebuilds and redeploys the Cloud Functions with the latest code from the `src` directory.
- Monitor the build and deployment process through the Google Cloud Console or your CI/CD tool to ensure successful deployment.

## Set Up

A few steps are needed to set up the connection between GCP, Terraform, and GitHub.

1. [Setting up GCP Project and GitHub repository](https://cloud.google.com/docs/terraform/resource-management/managing-infrastructure-as-code#prerequisites)
2. [Configuring Terraform to store state in a Cloud Storage bucket](https://cloud.google.com/docs/terraform/resource-management/managing-infrastructure-as-code#configuring_terraform_to_store_state_in_a_cloud_storage_bucket)
3. [Granting permissions to your Cloud Build service account](https://cloud.google.com/docs/terraform/resource-management/managing-infrastructure-as-code#granting_permissions_to_your_cloud_build_service_account)
4. [Directly connecting Cloud Build to your GitHub repository](https://cloud.google.com/docs/terraform/resource-management/managing-infrastructure-as-code#directly_connecting_cloud_build_to_your_github_repository)

## Common Errors

- 2nd Gen Google Cloud Run Functions can output misleading error messages. So after successful deployment in Cloud Build, if there is an error in the function console, try debugging by deploying the code locally. See: [StackOverflow Discussion](https://stackoverflow.com/a/75632728)

- If deploying locally shows no error, try changing the function name in `[branch_name]/main.tf`. This forces Cloud Build to reset deployment settings.

## See More At:

1. [Google: Managing infrastructure as code with Terraform, Cloud Build, and GitOps](https://cloud.google.com/docs/terraform/resource-management/managing-infrastructure-as-code) — Note the sample code repo is broken.
2. [Google: Cloud Functions, Terraform Tutorial](https://cloud.google.com/functions/docs/tutorials/terraform)
